Do not require for all task inputs to be filled by the calling workflow (#347)
openwdl/wdl: versions/development/SPEC.md

Workflows have inputs that must be satisfied to run them, just like tasks. Inputs to the workflow are provided as a key/value map where the key is of the form `workflow_name.input_name`.

> * Workflows may optionally leave its tasks' required inputs unsatisfied. This then forces the engine to additionally supply those inputs at run time. In this case, the inputs' names must be qualified in the inputs as `workflow_name.task_name.input_name`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Workflows may optionally leave its calls' required inputs unsatisfied. This then forces the user to additionally supply those inputs at run time. In this case, the inputs' names must be qualified in the inputs as `workflow_name.task_name.input_name`.
```

> * Optional inputs (or required inputs with defaults) for  tasks are not required to be

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Optional inputs (or required inputs with defaults) for calls are not required to be
```

  satisfied.

> * Inputs should be fully qualified. For example `workflow_name.workflow_input`,

Reviewer: Perhaps this should point to the dedicated section about fully qualified names and namespaces.

Author: That's a good suggestion. Done!

Workflows have inputs that must be satisfied to run them, just like tasks. Inputs to the workflow are provided as a key/value map where the key is of the form `workflow_name.input_name`.

Workflows call tasks (and subworkflows) that have inputs as well. These inputs can be filled
in by the calling workflow, or left empty for the user to fill in. The rules for defining inputs are as follows:

* Inputs should be fully qualified. For example `workflow_name.workflow_input`,
  `workflow_name.some_task.task_input`, `workflow_name.subworkflow_name.subwf_task.input_name`
  ,`workflow_name.subworkflow_name.another_subworkflow.yet_another_sub_wf.subwf_input` etc.
  For more information checkout
  [the section on fully qualified names](#fully-qualified-names--namespaced-identifiers).
* *Optional* inputs (or required inputs with defaults) for  tasks are not required to be
  satisfied.

> * It is good practice for workflows to provide the *required* inputs for its tasks. If this is

Author: Well, I think that @mlin was referring to this exact original text you quote when he said:

> Hi all, there is also an impact on workflow composition -- workflow calling another sub-workflow. If the 'inner' workflow has this kind of implicit required input, currently there is no syntax for the 'outer' workflow to supply them in the call inputs:, which does not admit namespaced keys.

> So use of this feature, while often convenient, (i) obfuscates a workflow's required inputs and (ii) interferes with composition of the workflow.

I agree that the current text is not quite clear. But I think that the better option is to make it required for all required task inputs to be satisfied, as you suggest. The text will become more clear that way. But as stated, I would like to know how the engine developers feel about this.

  not done the workflow cannot be called as a subworkflow as the call `input:` section does
  not allow namespaced inputs. Also, if a workflow does not fill its tasks' required options then these should be supplied by the user, while not being listed in the workflow `input` section. This can cause confusion and make the workflow harder to use.

>   Engines may optionally enforce the good behavior of supplying all tasks' required inputs by the

Author: Well, I made this optional on purpose, so I would not burden the engine developers with this. I can imagine it is not as straightforward as it may sound. But I am curious what the engine developers actually think. @mlin, @cjllanwarne ?
